Important Requirements:

-The program needs to be long term viable, we will need to set it up in a manner where dependencies wont break after 6 month know I now this is not 100% preventable but we want to minimize our exposure to this breaking down in a few months.

-We need to plan for data storage and extraction so that when we get going the program isn't bogging down for reference we will have roughly a million analytics records alone with all their fields so we want to be smart about this. 

Important terms and concepts:

Alma - our ils records system which contains the library catalog that we will be trying to mend
Item Updater by Excel - The alma tool we use to upload our work in the program to alma to amend records.
alternative_call_number - what item updater by excel calls a storage call number while alma calls it a Item Call Number
Storage Call number- S-1-02B-03-04-005 S= storage, 1= first floor, 02B= range two side B, 03= ladder three, 04= shelf four, 005= item number 5 on the shelf. 


Understanding the layout of the storage building:

Floors- Storage has three locations that would be considered floors that go as such first floor, second floor, addition. 

Sides of ranges- Addition and second floor are simple both of which have just A and B sided ranges. First floor has sections at the end and beginning that are only A and B while the middle contains A, B, C, and D. 

Shelf Sizes- Similar to the sides of ranges addition and second floor are all 35 inch shelves while first has only 35 at the beginning and ends with different sizes inside the A, B, C, and D. However most locations all have a different amount of shelves per ladder. 

Designated locations for material types- Storage has multiple types of material such as microfilm, microfiche, oversize, special collections, elec media, documents, and general stacks. 


Analytics fields and meanings:

Barcode- Unique barcode to each item

Item Call Number- The what alma stores as a storage call number as such as S-1-02B-03-04-005 but when uploaded to alma needs to be alternative_call_number

Title- The title of the item

Permanent Call Number- Either the LC call number or Superintendent of documents call number

Description- enumeration/chronology of the specific item

Location Code- location code for where items are stored for reference general stacks at storage is ssy.

Item Policy- journal, monograph, serial. This I have some ideas for that we will cover later.

Lifecycle- Lifecylce has two status Active and Deleted active means the items is still in the collection deleted means the items was withdrawn from alma but does not guarantee it is not on the shelf. 


Program Functions Overview (I will go into more detail for all of these later in this text):

Mapping for storage- What I am thinking here is because storage is not uniform it would be benefical to be able to essentially have a digital map of ranges, shelves, cases, etc that can be entered in manually by a user to ensure we don't have inaccuracy from assumptions. This will also let us set locations based  on materials and to have measured shelf sizes to help in shelf space management as well. Also since storage is ever changing we can update it to fit current needs. 

Finding inaccuracy's in records- This is going to be the primary tool for the program and will be how we inventory storage this will most likely involve multiple pages such as uploading scanned in sheets of whats on the shelf along with uploading analytics and then comparing to two to find any discrepencies

Space managment- This will tie back into mapping storage and data we upload but this can be a tool to fill shelves and manage our empty space to move materials to storage. Since I will go into this in more detail later I will keep this short but for an example if we measured a shelf on a range as having 35 inches while we make our mapping of storage and we measure that shelf when we scan it during inventory we can compare those to determine empty space. 

Minor Record Managment- Some items have no records in our ils due to issues from a previous migration also due to patchwork from the past there are certain series that have old editions and new editions at our main library and middle issues in storage which ideally the old series would be at storage and newer materials at the main library. However we don't want to concern ourselves with this to much this would just be a nice feature so we want to make sure we are keeping it in mind for later development. 

User accounts- What I have in mind here is not a separate program for every user or access restrictions but the ability for users to work on a shared project where there is the combined storage inventory and processes but also user specific saving abilities and tools. Such as if one user is working on a range it would allow them to have easy access to scanning sheets that they are working on but also have them shareable. This will make it less cluttered for each individual working but not limit the ability to work together. 

Data Storage and standardization- Currently how we work on large projects is a mess of excel sheets sitting in a web of folders in teams this to me seems unideal. What I am thinking with this is a comprehensive system to be able to organize all the work where it is easily retrievable and savable this will also help us get around the issue of multiple computers not being able to easily share the data outside teams. 

Reports- I would like the ability to make nice looking reports that are printable or sharable for aspects of this program. For instance it would be nice to make a report for different discrepancies, make a report for empty space, and so on. 


Program functions in detail:

Mapping For Storage:

This will be what we will work on first and will be quite complicated but worth it. When it is first opened I want it to open a dashboard for all our mapping functions which will look like such.

1. View Map- This will open the floor by floor view for physical maps that we will make under edit map this we will just make as a placeholder and probably work on more near the end. 

2. Search- Search by shelves, ladders, or ranges to be able to get common information such as how much space is available in the selected search range or the ability to look at a report of what is on the shelves or what errors are on those shelves. 

3. Data Entry- Manual Data entry by floor location for the number of ranges and their A,B,C,D status, how many ladders there are per range, how many shelves per each ladder, and the inches width of the shelves. Since most of these will be similar but different we will want it to go something like select range, select ladders per range, and then generate the range where each ladder will have a entry field for number of shelves and shelf width. 

4. Map Editor- Here we will have an interactive map maker where we will make a physical map using static shapes to show the layout of each floor and be able to give a visual of what we are working on. This will also be used in helping others find materials in storage using color coding for specific sections of storage. I understand this will be tricky to make but I want to have shapes scaled to size based off measurements that are able to be snapped together  







